README.md, before:

# US Border Crossings Analysis (1996–2024)

This project uses information from the Bereau of Transportation Statistics to see and analyze long-term trends in US border crossings and assess the impact of major events (9/11, COVID-19, presidencies, etc.) on the volume of people and vehicles entering the country.

## Data

Data from [Bureau of Transportation Statistics](https://www.bts.gov/explore-topics-and-geography/geography/border-crossingentry-data) ([US Border Crossings Dataset](https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/border-crossing-entry-data-683ae)) for inbound crossings into the U.S-Canada and the U.S.-Mexico border at the port level. Data shows the numbers for vehicles, containers, passengers, or pedestrians entering the United States. The data ranges from Jan 1996 to May 2024.

## Tools

- Python (pandas, matplotlib)
- Jupyter Notebook

## Key Findings

- [x] Sharp decline during COVID-19
- [x] Surge in crossings post-2021
- [x] Seasonal patterns observed annually

## How to Run

1. Clone the repo
2. Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`
3. Open `notebooks/border_crossing_analysis.ipynb`

Commit message:

Reorganized the structure of the project and added scripts folder

README.md, after:

# US Border Crossings Analysis (1996–2024)

This project uses information from the Bereau of Transportation Statistics to see and analyze long-term trends in US border crossings and assess the impact of major events (9/11, COVID-19, presidencies, etc.) on the volume of people and vehicles entering the country.

## Data

Data from [Bureau of Transportation Statistics](https://www.bts.gov/explore-topics-and-geography/geography/border-crossingentry-data) ([US Border Crossings Dataset](https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/border-crossing-entry-data-683ae)) for inbound crossings into the U.S-Canada and the U.S.-Mexico border at the port level. Data shows the numbers for vehicles, containers, passengers, or pedestrians entering the United States. The data ranges from Jan 1996 to May 2024.

## Goals

This project has as a goal to analyze the following:

- The total trends over time, upwards, downwards?
- How major events in the United States and the world have impacted the amount of crossings.
- What is the seasonal patterns seen in the borders, and why this might be.
- Which ports have the most traffic, where are they located, and why are they the busiest?

## Tools

- Python (pandas, matplotlib)
- Jupyter Notebook

## Key Findings

- TBF

## How to Run

1. Clone the repo
2. Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`
3. Open `notebooks/border_crossing_analysis.ipynb`
